hi guys I'm Laura Vitale on this episode
of Laura in the kitchen I'm going to
show you how to make basic pancakes now
it is absolutely absurd that I have not
made an episode on this already I mean
what it was I thinking I've been gone
I've been doing this for two years and
not me to pay a simple plain pancake
recipe and then even even dawned on me
like just recently I thought all these
requests are coming in I must not have
an episode up already so I did it and I
apologize for that and I've gotten just
so many requests to make basic pancakes
so I figured it is one of the most is
the e and one of the easiest recipes
you'll ever make and this is my recipe
that I have been using for years and
years and years and when you see how
easy it is to make you'll never go back
to the box stuff so of course before we
get started let's go over the
ingredients you're going to need some
all-purpose flour some whole milk egg
baking powder sugar salt and a little
bit of butter
those are you crazy ingredients can you
believe it now the methods of pancakes
my method anyway is the one method it's
one of everything so it's a cup of flour
a cup of milk a teaspoon of baking soda
a tablespoon of salt a teaspoon of salt
and egg that's it anything that's a
little bit of butter to cook them in but
just by using the 1 1 1 1 1 ratio
perfect pancakes every single time so if
you want to double this that's 2 cups of
flour 2 cups of milk 2 eggs too so and
so and so get insane so it couldn't be
easier so in this bowl I'm going to mix
all my ingredients and my flour I have
my milk and you could use skim milk for
this perfectly fine whatever you have on
hand egg my baking powder sugar and I do
put a little bit sugar in my recipe
which I know it's a bit different but I
feel like it needs just a tiny bit of
sweetness you know so I do it and it
works for me and you don't want to over
mix this a lumpy batter is a good batter
it's going to be really fluffy and
delicious if you over beat this it's
gonna be really dense and heavy so see
what I did I just ever so lightly mixed
up
together and that's it it's completely
done now another important step is that
you let this sit for about five to ten
minutes it relaxes the gluten which
means you're going to get a really
fluffy pancake so I'm just going to
clean up let this leave it alone for
about five minutes or so and then we're
ready to cook them up okay my batter has
been resting for about five minutes so
we are ready to cook them up now I have
a little griddle here that's been
preheating over medium heat and all I'm
going to do is stick a little bit of
butter because it's a stick of butter
you could do whatever you want
increasing however you want and I'm just
going to lightly grease it um because I
don't want a ton of butter like I don't
want a tablespoon of butter to cook my
pancakes in maybe I'm just a big weirdo
I don't know but I don't like the taste
of pancakes cooked in a ton of butter
don't ask I don't I'm a bit strange I
don't know so you have your batter ready
just give this a nice little stir that's
perfect I'm not even going to bother
going any further with that and now
we're just going to cook them up I'm
just going to use a little bit in a
ladle like this and just put them right
onto your griddle and these are going to
cook up and once you start to see
bubbles then you know you are ready to
flip them and I'll show you what that
looks like just ready to flip my last
two and as you can see all the little
bubbles on top that's when you know
you're ready to flip see that perfect
and I always find that your first batch
of Pancakes always come out a little bit
wonky donkey but then the rest of them
come out perfect don't ask why they just
do these are going to cook for another
30 seconds if that they really cook in
no time on the second time when you flip
them you're just looking for that
beautiful golden color I'm going to
remove them and eat them here we go and
that is our quick and easy everyday
pancakes which I look at the color of
those I have just got to just get myself
a taste you can top them with butter I
don't like to put on them with butter I
just like a little maple syrup over the
top like I'm simple I like I'm good I
want to eat some oops
I'm gonna get a big bite that one mMmmm
Oh God
perfect every single time it doesn't get
any easier than one one one one one
remember that but the recipe is going to
be on WWE laurainthekitchen.com so go on
there get the recipe print it out if you
want to then get in your kitchen
tomorrow morning and make these pancakes
because they are so good and so see you
later